# CS-311-Group-12

In today's diverse musical landscape, listeners have access to an astonishing array of over 700 genres of music, yet on average, individuals explore only 8 of these genres. This discrepancy highlights a significant opportunity for discovery that many music enthusiasts are missing out on. Our application, designed to enrich the music discovery experience, introduces an innovative approach to exploring new sounds through the act of walking, biking, driving, .... By integrating the concept of "virtual beacon" into a map interface, users are encouraged to engage with music in a uniquely interactive way. The way we see these beacons is basically some spot on a map, where the user can interact to drop or take music. 
The core functionality of our app is to facilitate the sharing of music via virtual beacons placed on a map. As users travel, they automatically (or manually) deposit music into a beacon and retrieve music from it. This interaction is primarily enabled through GPS technology, which allows users to precisely locate themselves and the nearby beacons in real-time.
To accommodate users without an immediate internet connection, we've devised an offline mode. In this mode, users can still participate by dropping song titles (identified by ID or title) into beacons they pass by. These actions are stored locally and are executed as transactions once the user reconnects to the internet, ensuring no opportunity for lost music sharing. In offline mode, one can also see his personal stats or download beacons in before, in order to still have access to them with no internet connection. One could also activate a “smart offline mode” where the app remembers where the user travels and downloads the close beacons.
User authentication is a key feature, not only for personalized experiences, but also for gathering insightful statistics such as the number of titles dropped or collected by each user. Additionally, the application is based on the integration with Spotify, enabling a link between the music of the users' existing Spotify libraries and our app.
	Users can get recommended (via special beacons) music that is important to that location’s culture. The area can be chosen by the user, and can be country wide, city wide or area wide. This might include historically relevant music (like traditional folk songs) or, for example, songs by some famous artist born in the vicinity, or they could choose to listen to the most liked song in this location. With this feature, when you arrive in an area or country, you can quickly find out the location’s top songs and start your trip with great music.
Users interact via the beacons. By dropping and receiving tracks for and from other users, they share their music. Users can like the songs in a beacon to show what songs belong or don’t belong in a beacon. And users with enough reputation can create their own customized beacon for users to interact with. The application will have multiple “modes” accessible to the user, the basic one would be where a user listens to a specific beacon, but the user could also choose to listen to many beacons in his area. 
Instead of interacting with beacons, users can also use a more passive mode, where the app plays music that other nearby users listen to. Users can act as “providers” that just listen to music passively, or as “consumers” that fetch songs from nearby providers and play those. So when a receiver finishes (or manually skips) a song, a new song is picked from the environment and played.
As for the gamification aspects, users will receive achievements rewarding them for the number of songs shared and reviews, distance traveled, popularity... Those might even give points to use for things like customization and what not.
In conclusion, our app aims to redefine the way users discover and share music. By merging physical activity with music discovery, we offer a novel solution to the challenge of musical monotony, encouraging users to expand their musical horizons in an engaging and interactive manner.
As a Vortex resident, I want to discover what music others in my community are listening to, so that I can uncover new songs and diversify my musical experiences during my daily commute to EPFL.
